Band 9
Task response: fully addresses all parts of the task; presents a fully developed position in answer to the question with relevant, fully extended and well supported ideas.
Coherence and cohesion: uses cohesion in such a way that it attracts no attention; skilfully manages paragraphing.
Lexical resource: uses a wide range of vocabulary with very natural and sophisticated control of lexical features; rare minor errors occur only as 'slips'.
Grammatical range and accuracy: uses a wide range of structures with full flexibility and accuracy; rare minor errors occur only as 'slips'.  

Band 8
Task response: sufficiently addresses all parts of the task; presents a well-developed response to the question with relevant, extended and supported ideas.
Coherence and cohesion: sequences information and ideas logically; manages all aspects of cohesion well; uses paragraphing sufficiently and appropriately.
Lexical resource: uses a wide range of vocabulary fluently and flexibly to convey precise meanings; skilfully uses uncommon lexical items but there may be occasional inaccuracies in word choice and collocation; produces rare errors in spelling and/or word formation.
Grammatical range and accuracy: uses a wide range of structures; the majority of sentences are error-free; makes only very occasional errors or inappropriacies.  

Band 7
Task response: addresses all parts of the task; presents a clear position throughout the response; presents, extends and supports main ideas, but there may be a tendency to over-generalise and/or supporting ideas may lack focus.
Coherence and cohesion: logically organises information and ideas; there is clear progression throughout; uses a range of cohesive devices appropriately although there may be some under-/over-use; presents a clear central topic within each paragraph.
Lexical resource: uses a sufficient range of vocabulary to allow some flexibility and precision; uses less common lexical items with some awareness of style and collocation; may produce occasional errors in word choice, spelling and/or word formation.
Grammatical range and accuracy: uses a variety of complex structures; produces frequent error-free sentences; has good control of grammar and punctuation but may make a few errors.  

Band 6
Task response: addresses all parts of the task although some parts may be more fully covered than others; presents a relevant position although the conclusions may become unclear or repetitive; presents relevant main ideas but some may be inadequately developed/unclear.
Coherence and cohesion: arranges information and ideas coherently and there is a clear overall progression; uses cohesive devices effectively, but cohesion within and/or between sentences may be faulty or mechanical; may not always use referencing clearly or appropriately; uses paragraphing, but not always logically.
Lexical resource: uses an adequate range of vocabulary for the task; attempts to use less common vocabulary but with some inaccuracy; makes some errors in spelling and/or word formation, but they do not impede communication.
Grammatical range and accuracy: uses a mix of simple and complex sentence forms; makes some errors in grammar and punctuation but they rarely reduce communication.  

Band 5
Task response: addresses the task only partially; the format may be inappropriate in places; expresses a position but the development is not always clear and there may be no conclusions drawn; presents some main ideas but these are limited and not sufficiently developed; there may be irrelevant detail.
Coherence and cohesion: presents information with some organisation but there may be a lack of overall progression; makes inadequate, inaccurate or over-use of cohesive devices; may be repetitive because of lack of referencing and substitution; may not write in paragraphs, or paragraphing may be inadequate.
Lexical resource: uses a limited range of vocabulary, but this is minimally adequate for the task; may make noticeable errors in spelling and/or word formation that may cause some difficulty for the reader.
Grammatical range and accuracy: uses only a limited range of structures; attempts complex sentences but these tend to be less accurate than simple sentences; may make frequent grammatical errors and punctuation may be faulty; errors can cause some difficulty for the reader.  

Band 4
Task response: responds to the task only in a minimal way or the answer is tangential; the format may be inappropriate; presents a position but this is unclear; presents some main ideas but these are difficult to identify and may be repetitive, irrelevant or not well supported.
Coherence and cohesion: presents information and ideas but these are not arranged coherently and there is no clear progression in the response; uses some basic cohesive devices but these may be inaccurate or repetitive; may not write in paragraphs or their use may be confusing.
Lexical resource: uses only basic vocabulary which may be used repetitively or which may be inappropriate for the task; has limited control of word formation and/or spelling; errors may cause strain for the reader.
Grammatical range and accuracy: uses only a very limited range of structures with only rare use of subordinate clauses; some structures are accurate but errors predominate, and punctuation is often faulty.  

Band 3
Task response: does not adequately address any part of the task; does not express a clear position; presents few ideas, which are largely undeveloped or irrelevant.
Coherence and cohesion: does not organise ideas logically; may use a very limited range of cohesive devices, and those used may not indicate a logical relationship between ideas.
Lexical resource: uses only a very limited range of words and expressions with very limited control of word formation and/or spelling; errors may severely distort the message.
Grammatical range and accuracy: attempts sentence forms but errors in grammar and punctuation predominate and distort the meaning.  

Band 2
Task response: barely responds to the task; does not express a position; may attempt to present one or two ideas but there is no development.
Coherence and cohesion: has very little control of organisational features.
Lexical resource: uses an extremely limited range of vocabulary; essentially no control of word formation and/or spelling.
Grammatical range and accuracy: cannot use sentence forms except in memorised phrases.  

Band 1
Task response: answer is completely unrelated to the task.
Coherence and cohesion: fails to communicate any message.
Lexical resource: can only use a few isolated words.
Grammatical range and accuracy: cannot use sentence forms at all.  

Band 0
Does not attend; does not attempt the task in any way; writes a totally memorised response.